---
layout: post
title: The Trump Effect
date: 2016-05-07 18:57
author: mpsturm
comments: true
categories: [2016 Election, Donald Trump, Politics, Uncategorized]
---


<h3>The Trump Effect</h3>
<h4>No matter what happens next, Trump has damaged America</h4>
<p>I don’t tend to write much in the way of topical material here. Don’t get me wrong; I think about current events a lot. I stay aware of unfolding stories that seem to be of import, and I keep them on my mind. I try to connect the dots, to identify trends and longer storylines, in an effort to gain not just knowledge of the bare facts, but wisdom — the deeper meaning of the stories.</p>
<p>This week, something happened that made me feel a bit fearful, and uncertain — a bad combination to be sure. This something was Donald Trump seemingly sealing up the Republican nomination for President of the United States.</p>
<p>I’m not going to engage here in speculation and forecasting. I’m not going to talk about whether or not there will be a contested convention, and Trump will not end up becoming the nominee. I won’t even dig into <a href="http://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2015/08/donald-trump-voters/401408/" target="_blank">the weird and counter-intuitive reasons why some small sub-sects of his voters support him.</a> I’m not smart enough to do any of that. I’m merely going to explore my worry about two things: what Trump’s success says about the people of the United States, and what effect his success has had on us.</p>
<h3>What Trump’s Success Says About Americans</h3>
<p>When you look in a mirror — unless it’s dirty or contorted — it will reflect back what’s there, mostly as it is. So when we look in the mirror that is this presidential primary, do we shrug off the repulsive reflection we see by saying that clearly something is off — the reflection is not accurate? Or do we assume that we’re seeing ourselves just as we are, and attempt to find out just what has happened?</p>
<p>I ask because the reflection I see is a bunch of bad things: hubris, intellectual laziness, misogyny, xenophobia, close-mindedness, and hurtful speech. I’m not even going to touch Trump’s stances on particular issues. You can easily find such analysis. Those traits I list are prevalent in nearly every one of his public speeches — regardless of what particular issue he’s addressing. He just oozes those traits, which means that those who have voted for him and will vote for him are, all things considered, <em>okay</em> with that.</p>
<h3>Whether Trump Wins or Not, the Damage Has Been Done</h3>
<p>For those who claim that there is a way that the RNC will happen without Trump winning the nomination — great, I hope that helps you sleep at night. From my point of view, that matters little. Trump has gotten this far by being hateful, distasteful, promoting personal and political violence, and being intellectually lazy. He has essentially shown the world that many Americans support this way of behaving. So even if he doesn’t go any further in his political career, the damage has been done. Millions have seen the American electorate through the lens of their support for Trump. And it’s a terrible image.</p>
<p>Some Trump supporters may claim that they look past his negative actions and attitudes toward some overarching pragmatic purpose. My response to you is one of two of the following: <em>bullshit!</em> or <em>that doesn’t matter, you’re missing the forest for the trees</em>. Whatever the reason people offer for voting Trump, they are saying that the attitude that Trump represents is tolerable in our national discourse. So let me be clear here about what I’m saying: Donald Trump is the worst thing to happen to American politics, ever — merely because of how he has altered the way we talk to and act toward each other.</p>
<p>A large part of our political discourse has been dumbed-down, drained of all civility, and lost any inkling of respect for clear and patient thought about issues. Make no mistake: this is regression, not progress. America will <em>never</em> be great when we talk and act the way Donald Trump acts and talks. We may “crush the competition”, but we will end up crushing any semblance of a cooperative spirit. Anyone who advocates for Trump — whatever the reason — is sending the message that such regression is acceptable.</p>
<p>But then, where do we go from here? I’m not sure, to be quite honest. I’m sure that if Trump loses — either at the convention or in the general election — there will be heightened disappointment among his supporters. That alone would be fine, but I fear the <em>way</em> that disappointment may manifest. If the way things have gone is any indication, the disappointment will probably manifest in terrible, disrespectful, and infantile speech and behavior.</p>
<p>But what if Trump wins? I’m not sure about this either. On one hand, I’m not sure that much in the way of policy will change. We have three branches of government, and one of them can only do so much — especially in the face of opposition by the others. But that’s not where Trump’s true danger lies. He is dangerous because of what he says, and how he says it. A Trump speaking tour across the world will do more damage than any laws he could realistically pass through Congress — doubly so when he is the top executive of our country. That is what I am fearful of.</p>
<hr>
<p><em>Originally published at </em><a href="http://www.mikesturm.net/the-trump-effect" target="_blank"><em>Your Fool Laureate</em></a><em>.</em></p>
