---
layout: post
title: The Nerd’s Defense of Sports
date: 2016-10-20 10:59
author: mpsturm
comments: true
categories: [Uncategorized]
---


<h3>The Nerd’s Defense of Sports</h3>
<p>A Few Non-Standard Reasons Why Sports are a Great Cultural Institution</p>
<p><br></p>
<p>As a kid, I loved watching and playing sports. There was no internet, and video games were touch and go for me. But I could sit with rapt attention and watch 10 guys try to put a ball into a hoop for 2 straight hours. I could listen to two announcers on the radio talk about what 4 pitches were most likely to be thrown throughout a game. I memorized player names, positions, and stats. </p>
<p>I loved sports.</p>
<p>As I grew older, I found the need to fit into the early 2000s mold of the intellectual. I left my enthusiasm for sports at the door. After all, I was a far-left progressive, a feminist, anti-commercialist, and all of the usual rebellious “ists” that came along with that. I couldn’t endorse the brutish, androcentric, and money-making machine that was sports. I would have to wait until the world said it was okay for a bookish liberal like myself to like sports.</p>
<p>Very recently, that has happened. I’m back into it again, just in a more nuanced way. You see, I don’t really <em>watch </em>many sporting events anymore. I read about the games, the season’s stories, the statistical trends. I watch highlights and recaps. Most importantly, I absorb the banter about sports at my office. To me, that’s the good stuff — like the burnt corners on a casserole dish of mac and cheese. People overlook it, but that’s where the real excitement is.</p>
<p>What I’ve come to realize is that sports are great for 2 main reasons:</p>
<ol>
<li>Sports provide a safe haven for us as humans to work out the more primal features of our nature.</li>
<li>Sports can unite us around the things that we as humans all appreciate.</li>
<li>Sports can divide us in benign ways that service our need to differentiate ourselves <strong>[See: the narcissism of minor differences]</strong>
</li>
</ol>
<h4>Our Human Nature</h4>
<p>Whatever your idea is of what humans should be trying to do, there are elements of our nature that keep on creeping in. Aggression, competitiveness, conflict, tribalism, and an attraction to the spontaneous.</p>
<p>Reality TV has become popular recently because we as humans are drawn to three things — at least as spectators: conflict, competition, and spontaneity. We love watching a good throw-down, and we love when we don’t know how it’s going to end. In the beginning of reality TV — before internet ubiquity— we spectators got that from the shows. Nowadays, two things have ruined the spontaneity of reality TV: nearly all reality show outcomes are either not live or semi-scripted, and there is heavy editing.</p>
<p>Sports, however, are raw, live, and by definition, not scripted. We see the battles in their full glory, unedited, and in real time. There is no attempt to construct a narrative and weave it into the game — we are free to take the raw game and build our own narrative. We often do. That narrative includes all kinds of emotion, history, family, and civic pride. It includes heroes, villains, triumphs, and defeats. </p>
<p><br></p>
<p><br></p>
<ul>
<li>Humans naturally want to be loyal to something like a tribe, where one single sentiment, one single emotion, (like rooting for the same team) can bond us.</li>
<li>that tribe comes with a history, with shared victories and defeats</li>
<li>It even comes with shared alliances and grudges against other tribes</li>
<li>The great thing is, that hatred of other teams, tough passionate, can take a backseat to a common love of the game itself.</li>
<li><br></li>
</ul>

