---
layout: post
title: I Try To Remember
date: 2017-02-28 19:11
author: mpsturm
comments: true
categories: [Uncategorized]
---


<p><br></p>
<h3>I Try To Remember</h3>
<h4>Some Verse</h4>
<p>I try to remember that he wants the same thing I want — to go home, go to bed, and wake up again tomorrow. But that’s hard to remember when we’re screaming at each other, when tempers flare, when whispers escalate to shouts.</p>
<p>I try to remember that we were both kids at one time, coming home from school on late-spring Friday afternoons. Just like him, I threw down my backpack, and threw open the door to breathe in the outside air. It was the sweetest air I had breathed. It had a smell and a taste. It had a weight, a texture, a feeling.</p>
<p>I try to remember the feeling, the smell, the taste.</p>
<p>I try to remember who had a better jump-shot, who could dribble better, who was faster — but it was so long ago.</p>
<p>I try to remember that day, on the edge of campus, on the edge of winter — when he said that it wasn’t a big deal.</p>
<p>I try to remember that it wasn’t a big deal — but I can’t, because it was. It still is. And now there is so much I try to remember.</p>
<p>I try to remember. But the more I try to remember, the more I seem to forget. And I guess that’s the thing about forgetting. There’s real freedom in forgetting; it’s like accidental forgiveness, and thus like accidental absolution. I am absolved of all sins by default. I absolve by forgetfulness.</p>
<p>I try to remember why I want to go where I’m going. But that’s the problem with going “away”; once you are far enough, you’re just wandering. You were going <em>from</em>, but not going <em>to</em> — and so there’s nowhere to be, and you never know when to stop. You could keep going forever, and most do.</p>
<p>I try to remember to take it easy.</p>
<p>I try to remember.<br>But I forget.</p>

