---
layout: post
title: I Met God at the Campus Coffee House
date: 2017-01-22 03:40
author: mpsturm
comments: true
categories: [Uncategorized]
---


<h3>I Met God at the Campus Coffee House</h3>
<h4>A (Mostly) Non-fiction Account</h4>
<p>I got in a fight with a friend of one of my 3 roommates, and left the apartment to walk down the streets of the downtown — adjacent to the campus. I could have told her to leave the apartment — she didn’t even live there. But none of my roommates were trying to sleep with me, and so the law of the land prevailed against me. As luck would have it. The night was warm and welcoming.</p>
<p>I made my way down eight city blocks to the coffeehouse that was intermittently under different ownership — kept afloat by the production company that brought trendy bands to play there. There was notional coffee, and the <em>idea</em> of vegan food there, but it wasn’t <em>about</em> either of those things. It was about the burgeoning hipsterism growing like a vine around the native post-punk culture of the college town.</p>
<p>The pants were getting tighter. The beards were growing longer. The hair was becoming more curiously groomed. But it was too early to be cynical about it. After all, people were still wearing Bad Brains shirts, so there was no apparent reason to panic.</p>
<p>I found myself there, having long since blown off the steam from the fight by walking a mile already. Now I was just thirsty (which makes sense if the steam I blew off was vital moisture), and I needed something to drink. Having been an ardent straight-edge at the time, I picked a non-alcoholic beverage that looked classy: Ginger Beer. It was spicier than I ever expected a soda could taste, but they had my money already, so I tried to make the best of it as I sat down at the long bar in front of the window, facing State Street — the main drag.</p>
<p>That’s when someone sat down next to me. I want to point out how odd that is, because unlike in stories, people just don’t <em>sit down next to you </em>in an eatery — at least not me. So this guy sits down next to me. </p>
<p>He was exactly the guy who <em>would </em>just sit down next to someone uninvited. He had long dark brown hair, a long beard that was too long and unkempt to be of the budding hipster pedigree. He wore brown cargo pants with some organically worn holes in them, and a rope belt. His shirt was nondescript, which was contrasted by the vest he was wearing — with more pockets than I thought a vest could have. It was dark green, but had neon tape randomly applied upon it. The pièce de résistance, however, was his necklace. It was a rope necklace, with the hollowed-out halves of golfballs strung on it.</p>
<p>A golf-ball necklace. I sipped my ginger beer.</p>
<p>Initially surprised, I mustered up the midwestern politeness with which I was raised and smile at him, saying “hey, how are you?” My bad, because he was looking to actually talk about how he was.</p>
<p>“I’m wonderful, man. No — wonder<em>ous</em>!” he said in a voice that did not fail to substantiate such a claim.</p>
<p>“Well, that’s not something you hear everyday.” I replied. I came off a bit more sarcastic there than I wanted to be — I recognize that now. But I was 20. What more could anyone expect from me?</p>
<p>“I sense a bit of skepticism, friend” he said with a smile that seemed to telegraph that he didn’t receive sarcasm.</p>
<p>“I don’t mean to sound that way,” I said apologetically. “I just tend to shy away from really grand adjectives. Besides, I’m just not feeling very grand tonight.”</p>
<p>“Don’t fret,” my new acquaintance reassured me “the fact that you don’t feel grand tonight is just part of what makes every feeling grand possible. And that’s pretty grand.”</p>
<p>That’s where I got sucked in. I have always been a sucker for deep conversation — for throwing off the formal wear of gossip, current events, the weather, etc., and going into the abstract and rich. This guy, whoever he was, had me. </p>
<p><br></p>
<p>“I just don’t get the sense that there’s anything more, anything bigger than just us,” I said sincerely. “Just a bunch of confused human beings trying to do the best for ourselves.”</p>
<p>“Maybe you’re right,” he admitted. “We are all there is.” And he paused for a second, then took a drink of his tea, and grinned a bit — as if he had found a beloved old trinket that he had presumed to be lost, “but maybe we are much bigger than we think.”</p>
<p><br></p>
<p>He chuckled slightly, but sincerely, “Laughter’s not medicine. Laughter is more like holy water. It’s spiritual. It’s how we get in touch.”</p>
<p><br></p>
<ul><li>Ran to the Kwik Stop right away to get a pad and paper</li></ul>
<p><br></p>
<p>I figured out what life is all about. It’s about making others feel good. It’s about telling a self-depricating joke, to get the table to laugh. To get them feeling at ease. To feel at ease yourself.</p>
<p>Life is a crowded restaurant on a Saturday night. Make sure everyone at your table feels at ease. And if there is time, you may visit the other tables as well.</p>

